I am reading to you today a very mysterious topic,
which is connected with the structure of capital, its price and risks,
which cause changes in the structure of capital in the economic life of any business.
A few words about myself.
I have been engaged in financial work, financial thematics, for many years.
I have been in the business for about 20 years,
starting from the position of the chief accountant of the heavy machinery plant.
For three years I worked as a financial director in two companies
and headed the analytical center of the Moscow Control and Accounting Chamber,
where the structure of capital plays a decisive role,
because the state structures are particularly concerned
about increasing the volume of loans due to budgetary means.
I have divided the structure of this topic into three modules.
In the first module, which is dedicated to the concept of the structure of capital,
I will talk about the problem of optimization or the choice of the rational structure of capital.
We will look at the approaches that have been developed in practice
to feel the line for which the future borrowing destroys this business.
You probably often hear that the whole world lives in debt.
And this is true.
It is the borrowing that allows people to expand their investment opportunities,
to implement ambitious problems that are facing them at the moment, strategic plans.
But the recent debt crisis in the United States still makes people understand
that there are objective borrowing boundaries,
which lead to bad results for both citizens and companies.
Therefore, there is an optimal structure of capital
that allows business to keep going and even develop.
The most important thing is to understand what factors affect the structure of capital.
You will see in textbooks such a definition of the structure of capital,
a combination of debt and personal capital,
which should be balanced by business assets every time.
This is called the structure of capital.
There is a slightly different definition.
It is related to what I have just said.
The structure of capital is a proportion of personal capital and borrowing,
which has developed in a company at the moment.
The differences are not fundamental.
First, in the extensive interpretation of the structure of capital,
I do not talk about how long it takes.
Secondly, I talk only about the long-term debt related to the development of the business.
Let's see why we need to understand the structure of capital in this way.
If we look at the structure of balance,
which you have already seen in previous lessons,
it becomes clear that in both parts of the balance,
capital is represented in a special way.
In the right part of the balance, the passive part,
it is represented as the capital function.
In this role, capital gives an idea of the structure of the business.
Who is behind this company?
What are the responsibilities for the company that are threatening?
All the ideas about the sources of financing can be seen in the right part of the balance.
This is the capital function.
But in this form, no one needs capital.
It must give a return.
It starts giving a return when we move to the left side of the balance.
Capital is represented as the capital function.
The function of making new money.
It is the left side of the balance that gives an idea of the profile of this business,
of its financial complex.
Here we often find money.
In the cash or at the account, which I mentioned.
It is clear that this is not working money.
Therefore, it is not capital.
The task of the financiers is to build the structure of capital,
both in the active and passive part,
so that the presence of money will provide you with the current payment ability.
And capital gave the greatest return.
The problem is that in the left part we find the current debt,
which we call the debitory debt.
In the right part, the creditory debt.
Here you can see the connection between the two definitions of the structure of capital.
In normal conditions, the current debt,
that is, we credit the business,
the reflection finds this operation in the debitory debt.
We are credited, suppliers and contractors.
This will be the creditory debt.
And in normal conditions, they are balanced.
If we remove these two components from the left and right parts of the balance,
then we will come to a rigid definition of the structure of capital.
Indeed, the proportions between the own and long-term borrowed sources.
But the difficulty is in what?
If there are not enough financial assets in the company's assets,
then the company will inevitably experience financial ruptures at certain points.
That is, at the right time, there is simply not enough money to carry out some operations.
Or, as people sometimes say, a deficit of capital for development is found.
On the other hand, if there are a lot of money,
the company works with excess liquidity.
It is not active enough.
Therefore, users of financial reporting, for which the company provides its data,
will immediately react to this.
Therefore, when you decide to solve the case,
pay close attention to how much money is rationally available in the business situation.
If it is excess liquidity, then the amount of money should be brought to the norm,
released and given simply to shareholders.
This is their income, and you are fulfilling your mission.
Or, if you find that you have a deficit of capital for development,
then you simply cannot touch the cash.
Where do the original requirements for the structure of capital arise?
In any textbook on financial management, you will find that capital has functions.
There are usually three of them.
First, the capital itself should provide an adequate basis for the growth of the business.
The second important function is that the capital should be in such a size
that the possible losses that occur from time to time in any business
can be absorbed and neutralized.
Finally, the capital should be in such a size that in the event of bankruptcy,
which is the pattern of the market economy,
it can protect creditors and shareholders from serious losses.
So, these are the three functions of capital.
If you look closely at them in relation to each particular company,
you will see that the capital structure that the financiers should optimize is predetermined.
The importance of choosing a rational capital structure is determined by a number of conditions.
For example, if a company has a capital structure that provides money to the external environment at a high price,
it immediately enters the limitation of its investment decisions.
The demand for the profitability of the invested capital immediately becomes very high.
The company becomes selective in choosing investments.
That is, the company's investment opportunities immediately decrease.
This is the first very important initial condition.
The second one is that there are often additional limitations on investment opportunities.
The company cannot respond flexibly enough to the challenges of the external environment,
it becomes manoeuvrable in competition, and very often it simply gets out of competition.
The concern for the flexibility of the business is considered the number one concern today.
Finally, if the proportion of the borrowed capital is not optimal,
internal conflicts often arise.
They are often called professional conflicts or agency conflicts.
Between the management, that is, the higher management of the company, and the owners or shareholders.
Between the owners and creditors.
These conflicts greatly reduce the investment opportunities of the business, if they begin.
Therefore, if such a conflict has arisen in the company at the moment,
there is no question of additional capital attractions.
It just cannot happen.
We should forget about it before these conflicts disappear.
Otherwise, the value of capital will simply destroy your business.
A very important concept related to the choice of the rational structure of capital is the sufficiency of capital.
Let me tell you about such a case from practice.
It is clear that the problem of the sufficiency of capital arises when we think about the coming financial year.
How much does the company want to earn?
It is clear that in order to increase the income, additional assets are needed.
In order to purchase additional assets, additional money is needed.
And from this, the conflict of these circumstances immediately forms the criteria of the sufficiency of the capital.
How much capital is needed for the coming year to ensure the planned income?
Pay attention to the slide.
The capital itself is equal to the net profit minus the bracket R minus I.
This is a very significant term in finance.
The profitability of assets calculated on net profit or economic profitability is often called.
And this value characterizes the debt rate.
At what price does the firm receive the debt sources?
The difference in this bracket is multiplied by the amount of the long-term debt.
If you look closely at the formula calculator, the load on the capital itself is either net profit or net profit.
But here the problem arises.
The value in the bracket can change the sign.
That is, R minus I can change the sign.
Suddenly, if the value in the bracket is negative, the minus gives a plus.
Thus, the attraction of loans in this situation only aggravates the demand for one's own capital.
The load on net profit increases even more.
How much asset is required to obtain this amount of profit?
To do this, it is enough to divide net profit by economic profitability.
And we will get the amount of additional financing in the form of a long-term debt.
We will see this expression in the bracket more than once.
It is desirable that all listeners remember the economic nature of this expression.
A number of important consequences arise from this formula.
The planned profit is achievable only if the additional payment from these assets increases the profit.
In this case, the increase in assets due to debt is economically justified.
This is where the statement that the whole world lives in debt comes from.
What is the exact amount of asset growth needed?
To do this, we simply need to divide the amount of profit we want to obtain by economic profitability.
Obviously, if R minus I, the need to finance this business in terms of one's own capital, increases enormously,
the load will be solely on net profit.
So, if we look at the economic meaning of the bracket,
multiplied by the amount of long-term debt divided by economic profitability,
the amount of financial resources that companies need to compensate in risky conditions will not be economically justified.
Here is an example from practice.
One of the well-known companies located in Moscow is the shareholder society, the Institute of Hydro Projects.
This is a complex and very strong economic formation represented by three branches in Russia,
located in different places, starting from the Caucasus and ending in Eastern Siberia.
And three branches abroad, the most powerful in India.
You probably heard that Russia won a tender for the construction of the GSTERI in India,
and the Institute was the participant of this tender.
Therefore, the branch abroad was of great importance in the fate of this company.
It would seem that a well-known company with a long economic history, which has been working steadily for many years,
should have its own capital in such a size to insure such a complex structure of its business from various disorders.
But here is what happened.
At one point, a very bad signal came from a subsidiary company located in Eastern Siberia.
The company had great debts to the tax authorities.
The tax authorities soon learned that there was a head office in Moscow,
and all the claims to the subsidiary company were sent to the head office.
And this is where the problem of capital sufficiency arose for the first time in this company.
If all the debts of this subsidiary company were paid by the tax authorities,
the Institute could have been closed.
Why? Because the company never talked about the sufficiency of capital.
But if we consider the function of capital, it should be in such a size
that the company could insure all the economic disorders of its structural subdivisions.
This risk was not included in the established capital of this company.
Therefore, it was necessary to urgently change the structure of capital,
increase the long-term loans, restructure, take up tax debts,
and gradually pay off the debts and leave the company afloat.
What factors affect the choice of the rational structure of capital?
First, the external environment in the conditions of globalization plays a huge role.
The capital markets are connected all over the world today.
If you pay attention, our stock indexes on the main platforms of the IMF and the RTS have sharply fallen.
There were no internal reasons for the fall of the stock prices.
It turned out that the fall of the stock prices in the United States
on the platforms of the major Asian companies
has brought the fall of the stock prices in Russia.
So what is behind this?
A number of companies were forced to abandon all decisions on the optimization of the capital structure,
to stop their programs of going to the exchange platforms
in order to attract additional money from the placement of the IPO program,
and to wait for the favorable moment.
If you look at this slide, you will see two groups of factors.
The left side of the slide gives an idea of the factors that form the capital structure.
If they prevail in this business, you put the priority of your own financing of this business.
And vice versa, if the factors that are described in the right side of the slide prevail,
you put the priority of your own financing of this business.
So, the instability of the economic environment.
If this is found, the company puts the priority of its own financing.
And vice versa, if the environment is favorable, the company puts the priority of its own financing.
But here we should keep in mind that the economic environment or the level of stability of the economic environment
pre-determines the so-called investment period in each specific country.
And based on the definition of the capital structure,
we talked about the ratio or the proportion of the own and long-term borrowers,
what is the long-term borrower in the world of this reason of the formation of the capital structure.
Until recently, literally 2-3 years ago, the investment period of Russia did not exceed the frame of 3 years.
Therefore, if you pay attention, the basic characteristics of our bonds were 3-year bonds.
Although the Western world or the companies that place their bonds on developed stock exchanges
immediately claim from 5 and more years.
Here is the difference in the investment climate, in the conditions of the external environment
and the structure of the capital that the company can afford.
A very important value in the structure of the capital is the lifetime of the company.
The company is just starting its own business.
It is clear that no one will give it serious money in debts,
and therefore all hope is on its own source of financing.
If the company has a history, it expands, then of course such a company will be able to finance its debt.
It will be burdened with debts, the turnover expands,
more and more money is required to maintain the business's power,
and hence, of course, the tendency to long-term financing is obvious and justified.
A lot of things in the choice of the structure of the capital are determined by the qualifications of the financial services of this company.
It should be understood that borrowing or attracting debt sources for financing is a very complex financial transaction.
It requires a huge amount of knowledge, requirements for debt financing,
and criteria that determine the rate of debt financing.
If the financiers are not qualified enough, then of course the capital will be very expensive for them,
and most likely they will be burdened with their own sources of financing.
On the contrary, if the company has a very high financial culture,
then it is not difficult to enter the capital market, and the company can easily attract borrowing capital.
An important factor in determining the structure of capital is the level of financial dependence.
What is it? It is the ratio of the own and borrowed funds, which is equal.
But most often, and you will notice it in the books,
it is written that the ratio of 50 to 50, that is, 50 own and 50 borrowed funds,
is the necessary level of financial independence, that is, the equality of own and borrowed funds.
If the company has this ratio, then of course it is limited in the possibilities of further expansion of financial dependence,
and it will be burdened with its own capital.
And vice versa, if the ratio of debt and own capital is far from the 50 to 50 limit,
then of course the company can afford to increase the volume of debt sources and expand its turnover at this expense.
It will be burdened with debt financing.
A very important factor in determining the structure of capital is the limitation of the financial resources.
Either they are limited in the national capital market, or access to them is not limited.
If there are limitations, then our market history of Russia is based on the fact that we have always had a sharp deficit of debt financing sources.
In the conditions of limitation, of course, the company will be burdened with its own financing.
And vice versa, if the access to the capital market is free, the company will be happy to borrow,
and the cost of borrowing will not be catastrophic for it.
You have probably heard a lot of talk in recent years about the fact that the company should be open to the outside world.
That is, references that your information is confidential, close the doors to you on the capital market.
No one will talk to you about borrowing.
And vice versa, in the conditions of transparency of financial information that you give to the outside world,
of course, investors and creditors have the opportunity to assess your risks, your financial needs,
your possible return on investment of financial resources.
And, of course, the access to debt financing of such a company is open.
A very important value in determining the tendency to either debt financing or own financing
determines how you feel about the implementation of investment projects.
If the company is talking about the implementation of projects related to the minimization of costs for the attraction of capital,
that is, the minimum cost is the main condition for the implementation of this investment project.
Often such investments are called mandatory.
Apparently, when you studied this topic, you talked about them.
Of course, companies with such investment projects should rely exclusively on their own sources of financing.
And vice versa, if the investment portfolio of the company is rich, it has several promising investment projects in turn,
and if we are talking about the payable costs for the implementation of the money attracted for these projects,
then here the financial work begins.
Here, the work to find the optimal structure of capital is a very important block of financial activity,
and the company will, of course, be happy to attract debt financing.
Finally, a very important value in choosing the structure of capital is the profile of each particular company.
As they say, if a company is mastering some pioneering projects,
that is, it has innovative ideas that give it competitive advantages,
but you understand that any pioneering project or any innovation is associated with a huge risk of their future success.
It is impossible to calculate in advance all the consequences of the implementation of such an innovation project.
Therefore, in the initial period of implementation of this project,
it is possible to talk exclusively about the sources of financing.
And you probably noticed how difficult it is for companies to attract money from the environment.
They can be given money by specialists of a special profile,
that is, venture capitalists who understand the meaning of innovative projects
and will provide the corresponding money for a share of participation in this business.
In this case, we are talking about financing an innovative project or a pioneering project exclusively at the expense of their own capital.
And the situation is completely different when the business profile is associated with a traditional product.
But imagine a business, a fashionable housing construction.
Of course, if there is a product of this kind,
then such a company will be given credits and release of bonds.
And it will not be difficult to apply for such a company.
That is, it will be directed to debt financing.
Why? Because its product is a very good collateral for any debt.
And therefore, the path to debt financing of such a company is open.
An audience or a student who has no idea about the problem of capital management,
and the structure of capital is one of the problems of this field,
can imagine the path of choosing a rational structure of capital for a particular company.
If they carefully group these factors, which determine the tendency to either debt or their own financing,
and thus build an acceptable structure of capital for this business.
But what is difficult in optimizing the structure of capital?
Why is this problem so acute?
It was put on the line in the 50s and 60s of the 20th century by two outstanding financiers of the 20th century,
Miller and Modigliani, Nobel laureates.
After they published their famous article on the structure of capital in 1958,
the financial world exploded.
Since then, there has been no more active discussion.
They made such a statement.
The success of a business, its value does not depend on the structure of capital,
does not depend on the dividend policy, everything is determined by the internal profitability of the business.
So, the structure of capital does not have a fundamental value,
all the attention is on the profitability of this business,
that is, the return of investors to capital.
They proved brilliantly, based on the original assumptions,
why their statement was justified.
The world began a long discussion of various options for the implementation of the business financing strategy proposed by these outstanding financiers.
The first reproach that scientists made to them was that they did not take into account the tax burden.
That is, they neglected taxes, there were no tax factors in the original restrictions,
and therefore came to this conclusion.
If you look closely at the nature of debt financing,
everyone understands that there was a loan many centuries ago,
but the nature of debt financing in our topic is that it dates back to the time when the economy based on capital received its highest prosperity.
If you look closely at how the tax factor affects the structure of capital, you will find out.
Why do people take money into debt?
Because the interest rate for the debt financing is related to the costs,
which reduce the tax revenue, and therefore the tax on revenue in the budget becomes less.
Experts say that we include a tax shield in the case of debt financing,
that is, we protect part of the profit of the manufacturer from the tax inspection.
The question is, if we are talking about taxes,
then at first glance it is not profitable for the state to give permission to entrepreneurs to pay interest on their debts.
Nevertheless, it can be safely said that this is a fundamental and original message on which the world of capitalism stands today.
The government deliberately gives permission to entrepreneurs to pay interest on their expenses in order to activate the entrepreneurial spirit in society.
In this case, the mass of income is important, not the interest that will go into the budget from the income received.
It turns out that the state is the ultimate beneficiary of all the benefits of business from debt financing, that is, the state budget.
It is clear why the term developing economy or transitional economy has a right to life.
Recall our recent Russian experience.
In the 1990s, only a part of the company's interest payments had the right to pay for expenses.
That is, only a part of the expenses for capital could be deducted from the investment.
This is the discrepancy that prevents the development of such an economy.
This is the first characteristic of the transitional economy.
Even today, after 15 years of the construction of the market economy, Russia is not yet ready to allow its entrepreneurs to pay interest on their expenses.
There is a limit to the refinancing rate of the Central Bank, which today is 10%, multiplied by 1.1%.
If your interest payments are worth more than this rate, then this excess is considered a net profit.
Even today, although we are recognized as a country with a market economy, we cannot say that we have not met this requirement.
The echoes of the transitional economy still remain in Russia.
The tax rate will save a part of the company's remaining profits.
In this case, the company's aspiration to maximize its profitability and increase the wealth of shareholders will always be focused on increasing the debt financing.
The growth of the source of financing, the higher turnover, the higher the profit, the greater the wealth of the company.
So, profitability as a basic financial parameter has a decisive role in determining the structure of capital and in its optimization procedures.
The second problem associated with the optimization of the structure of capital is caused by the parameter of liquidity.
This is the most complex parameter of financial science, which still does not allow many financial concepts to be implemented in practical activity.
The second half of the 20th century, starting with the discoveries of Miller and Modigliani, and ending with the latest achievements in financial science, is sometimes called the golden age of finance.
This is true. There are a huge number of outstanding discoveries, for which Nobel Prize winners were awarded.
But the most interesting thing is that all the awards concerned profitability and risk.
Liquidity has always been beyond the boundaries of the theory of even the greats.
This problem still stands before the financiers.
Why is the parameter of liquidity so difficult to implement in the structure of capital?
As we often understand, liquidity is the ratio of current assets, money, assets, and production reserves.
These are short assets with a short life span.
These are current assets.
We said that they are equated with current debts, with current liabilities.
The ratio of current assets and liabilities is greater than 1.
It is said that liquidity is fine.
But what is liquidity about?
Is it about balance or financial liquidity?
Liquidity should be understood more broadly.
Liquidity is the ability of goods or assets to be sold.
Can it be realized for real money or not?
If you look at the structure of revenue of any company, you can immediately make an idea of its liquidity.
Either the company gets money ahead, or it has a huge debit rate.
The company can only sell, and when it gets money, it's a different story.
If the company falls into such conditions, then, of course, we can't talk about high liquidity.
The double interpretation of the parameter of liquidity immediately causes a lot of difficulties in optimizing the structure of capital.
And finally, there is a risk.
In the conditions of the market economy, the extreme risks are quite specific.
Bankruptcy of this company.
Even in a prosperous America, at least 50,000 companies become bankrupt every year.
I mean only businesses that work in the white, like One Day Bank and other black business representatives are not taken into account.
That is, these are conscientious entrepreneurs, who, under certain circumstances, fall into such a risk band that they can't cope with it.
Bankruptcy.
This is the third parameter that directly affects the optimization of the structure of capital.
And in the future, we will look closely at how to take into account the influence of each individual factor in the process of optimizing the structure of capital.
What is the optimal structure of capital?
This is the ratio of borrowed capital, where the minimum total costs for attracting capital are achieved.
Or the average costs for capital.
Keep in mind that the cost of capital and the costs for capital are synonyms.
In different books, they say different words, but they are the same.
So keep in mind every time you read different books.
So, this is the structure of capital that allows additional sources of financing at a minimum rate.
What is the complexity of solving this problem in the real world?
It is complex in itself.
And it includes the problem of capital sufficiency.
You have seen this problem in the formula, and I told you about it on a specific example.
This problem is related to the provision of the necessary financial reserves.
The problem is the share of debt in the structure of capital, which always provides additional profitability to the company.
The second determining limitation.
Finally, the share of your own capital, which determines the creditability of the company.
It is clear that if you have a standardized business with a product that can be invested by a creditor,
then the problem of creditability falls into the background.
And if not, then you can only insure your own creditability with your own capital.
Hence the problem of its share.
And finally, the price of capital, the average cost of capital.
This is also one of the problems of optimization.
And it plays a fundamental role in a developing business.
In fact, the price of capital determines the lower limit of the attractiveness of investment projects.
If suddenly the return of an investment project is lower than the attractiveness of financing,
then the final fate of the project will be deplorable.
The financing scheme itself will destroy its effectiveness.
This is the complex nature of the problem of capital structure optimization.
But even listing these factors does not speak of many important things that determine the optimal structure of capital.
It is often said that even if we are talking about a long-term debt,
what is its subject diversification?
That is, the disengagement between business subjects.
One thing is that we take a loan in a bank, one subject, right?
There is no debt diversification in this case.
And if I issue bonds or VIX, they diverge from a huge number of buyers.
The business in this case has a diversified debt structure.
It is clear that the diversified structure and the collected debts in one place
are two completely different qualities of debt.
This should always be taken into account when determining the optimal structure of capital.
There are many examples of the impact of subject diversification on the success or failure of individual economies.
The most famous example is the Asian problem of debt financing.
We know that the advanced economy of Japan was in a state of stagnation for 10 years.
Now it is barely getting out of this state.
This is because it had a bank-oriented economy.
That is, there was a strong interweaving of debt financing with the help of banks and the production business.
Therefore, if interest rates are unfavorable for a period of time,
lending in such conditions immediately becomes difficult.
If this is a systemic form of business financing, then the national economy itself begins to stagnate.
The problem of debt financing in China is very difficult to solve, despite the fact that China has joined the WTO.
China is actively developing its new financial system,
prioritizing state banks, withdrawing bad loans from business,
and actively expanding the stock market.
The funders are growing rapidly in China.
This transition is not yet complete.
The formation of an optimal capital structure for Chinese enterprises or for the Russian business,
which works with Chinese agents, is always difficult.
The same subject diversification is assumed in relation to one's own capital.
The AFK system is very well-known in Moscow.
It is a very advanced and rich company.
Recently, it entered the capital market to place additional shares, i.e. to implement the IPO program.
The first attempt was unsuccessful.
The structure of the internal capital was built in such a way that the shareholder had more than 80% of the company's fixed capital.
The fund market allows for no more than 70% in one hand.
Therefore, the internal structure of the capital had to be changed in order to be able to enter the fund market.
They succeeded.
But, as you can see, they had to diversify the structure of their capital in such an original way.
What approaches have been developed in the world of science and practice in terms of optimizing the structure of capital?
The most popular approach is called the compromise or traditional method.
Pay attention to this slide.
If I look at the coordinates of the price of capital and the financial dependence, i.e. the structure of capital,
I will see how the structure of capital and its value will be formed, depending on what money I attract to the development of the business.
The upper curve characterizes the capital itself.
It is customary to think that since the very development of the business, its expansion, increase in debt dependence, i.e. the increase in debt and capital itself,
the value of the capital has been increasing evenly, while the total value of the capital has been gradually decreasing.
It is clear that the larger the amount of debt sources in the structure of capital, the more you save on the tax rate, and therefore the value of the capital decreases.
But pay attention to the fact that during the development or at a certain stage of the life cycle, you enter a phase when both your own capital and the debt for the company become more expensive.
The first person among the scientists who noticed this situation, in a dispute with the first-time researchers Miller and Modigliani, was Durand.
He observed dozens of large American firms and discovered this thing.
He said that up to a certain point, the value of the capital or the average value of the capital, the average cost of capital, decreases.
And only after some point, the value of the source of financing increases.
This means that there is an optimal structure of capital that must be adhered to.
If an entrepreneur felt this line, saw that the cost of money went up, he must return to the previous situation and accept that this is the optimal structure of capital for him.
This is why this traditional method of optimization is written in every textbook.
This concept is not strictly scientific, because it is impossible to mathematically calculate this point of the fracture when the cost of capital begins to increase.
The uniqueness of each firm, and all firms are unique, does not give a chance to mathematically express the point of the fracture.
In practice, the structure of capital is often optimized by purely operational profits.
What is the point? Of course, the desire for profit is and will be the rational goal of any business.
The theory states that with the increase of borrowed funds in the structure of capital, investors and creditors do not realize the risk of the company increasing.
The firm works, shows good turnover, so it does not cause much concern.
As a result, the cost of borrowed funds remains constant, does not change from time to time, and, of course, raises the total profit of the company.
Because investors do not realize the increasing risk, they are satisfied with the increase in the profit, and they hope for a multiple return on investment of debt sources in the increase of profit.
Their ultimate goal is realized, and they encourage the increase of the use of borrowed funds in this company.
What is the conclusion? Yes, everyone is satisfied.
By using borrowed funds, you can reduce the price of your capital, increase the value of the company for shareholders, but everything is up to time.
There is one very important assumption that should always be taken into account.
We said that at some point in time, the expansion of the financial volume does not cause concern for creditors or shareholders, but the increase in financial dependence still occurs, and therefore the financial risks increase.
In this case, the growth of turnover is ignored, and the business risk is ignored, which is associated with the transformation of the marginal profit into the operational profit.
But in the future we will show that both the financial and business risks act simultaneously, they do not work separately.
This assumption also doubts the optimality of this method, its scientific evidence.
Still, some experience and intuition are present in optimizing the structure of capital in this method.
There is another method recognized by science, I believe it is the most scientific proof.
The method of operational profit. If we are talking about purely operational profit, then we are talking about the overall operational profit.
This method is widely used in practice, because it explains the situation for any company, the probability of bankruptcy.
Comparing the profit earned by the operational profit with a certain criterion of bankruptcy, and there are many such models of determining the probability of bankruptcy in science today.
One of the most popular models is Altman. If I take the five-factor model of Altman, I will calculate the probability of bankruptcy for my company.
I got 2.9, this is the limit that cannot be crossed.
But in the model of the structure of capital, the probability of bankruptcy is calculated, and the structure of capital is involved.
If I got such a probability of bankruptcy, then further increase in the structure of capital is simply impossible.
My operational profit will not be enough to pay off all the debts of the company in the coming year.
What debts are we talking about? The main operational profit is the profit before the payment of interest and taxes.
It is clear that this is the format of profit, because bankruptcy is expressed in debt, so the profit before the payment of taxes is taken.
The second component for comparison is the debt load on the profit.
The amount of the main debt plus the interest for this debt within one year.
Sometimes this amount is called a two-part financial debt.
This term is often used in textbooks.
The condition of bankruptcy for any year is as follows.
The profit before the payment of interest and taxes is less than the debt load on the profit.
This is the condition of bankruptcy.
If the company enters this stage, the debt load must be reduced immediately.
It is clear that the concept of bankruptcy, as the most clear from the point of view of business,
opens the method of optimization of the structure of capital,
the means of operational profit, as the most understandable to the practicing financiers.
The method has two assumptions.
First, the character of the distribution of future profit is not taken into account.
We took the profit before the payment of interest and taxes.
And suddenly the company has a privileged share, a guaranteed dividend,
so some of the profit must be sent to pay these dividends.
But, as we see, this limitation is not provided in the initial shipments.
If it is, then the conditions of bankruptcy must be explained separately.
The profit before the payment of interest and taxes must be reduced to the amount of guaranteed payments.
The second limitation that also causes concern of the practicing financiers
is that the operational profit does not depend on the level of the financial lever.
We will see later that this is not the case, and therefore it is dangerous to ignore this assumption.
What is the relationship between the price of capital and the price of the company?
In general, the price of capital is often equal to the ratio of expenses associated with the extraction of capital,
the percentage of dividends, other forms of payment for the extraction of capital,
often called financial costs, and the amount of resources attracted.
One divided into another, expressed in percents, and this is how the price of capital is determined.
The price of capital and the expense of capital are synonyms,
so if you see one or the other name in the books, keep in mind that they are the same.
They say that by using debt-based financing, you can earn a lot of income and at the same time hold on to the float for a long time.
This is actually true.
In Moscow, there is a well-known company Radon, a large company that collects and utilizes nuclear waste,
in the area of Sergiu Posada.
The financing of this company is mixed, it is allocated money from the federal budget, from the budget of Moscow,
and of course, the company's services are not free, so there are also your own earned income.
That is, such a complex structure of financing, but you need to understand one simple thing.
One thing is the source of financing on paper, and the second is at what rate they enter a particular business.
Imagine a situation, allocated from the federal budget, let's say, 50 million rubles for the coming financial year.
You can get money on January 15, and you can get money on July 15, or even later.
Therefore, the period when the source of financing enters a particular business, already determines the possibility of insuring this financial gap.
The first thing that comes to mind, and so the company Radon acted in its life, is to attract debt money, debt financing sources.
A suitable bank is chosen, and here are possible options.
You can just take a one-time loan for a financial gap, this is one situation, and you can open a credit line.
The choice of various ways of debt financing allows you to either conduct a debt policy within the framework of a civilized business,
or build, as in the case of the extreme, a financial pyramid.
This is what Radon did. After the check of the Moscow Accounting Chamber, a huge financial pyramid was revealed.
The company worked, nothing threatened at first glance.
But who was the guarantor in the last instance of payments for this financial pyramid in the event of its collapse?
Of course, the Moscow government. As soon as this became known, a number of restrictions were immediately adopted by the Moscow City Council,
and the guarantors were immediately assigned to the Moscow government, and the budget structure was incorporated.
A number of restrictions were made.
Here is how the construction of a certain capital structure affects its value, and the reaction of the owners or managers of this business to the exit from this situation.
Why did Radon's capital price soar?
It is clear that you have to pay for convenience.
One thing is a one-time loan, and the other is a credit line.
That is, at any time, in the event of a financial collapse, a certain level of access to debt financing is always open.
For this convenience, you have to pay.
Therefore, the cost of the loan in the form of a credit line was at least two times higher than the Central Bank's refinancing rate.
This is the influence of the capital structure and the form of debt financing on the capital price.
The second factor that takes part in the formation of the capital price policy is the time cost of money.
The time factor is taken into account in the cost of money.
Today's money is much more expensive than money in a year, two, three, and with the help of discounting, we take into account the time cost of money.
The next factor that determines the price of capital is the risk level.
Each company, as we said, is unique.
Therefore, the internal structure of business and financial risks is distributed differently.
And the assessment of capital depends on how much emphasis is placed on one or the other side, namely, on the business or financial risk.
Imagine a simple situation.
The business risk of a company is huge.
Can a company afford a high financial risk related to debt financing?
Of course not.
Therefore, the structure of capital will be predetermined.
From here, its cost is determined.
And vice versa.
A company with a small business risk can afford a higher financial risk.
The key role in determining the price of capital is the state of the capital market.
You can often hear that the market is always right.
In a sense, this is true.
The truth is that the market is represented by a huge number of different participants, creditors, investors.
They study the situation of companies that ask for financing sources.
They say that almost everything is known about this company.
That is, they minimize a huge amount of information about this company, about its relations with counteragents,
the logic of behavior with investors, whether they pay dividends or do it irregularly.
The market knows all this.
From here, an average value of capital is formed.
It is a bar that determines the value of capital for each particular company.
How is the task of assessing the price of capital solved?
It is clear that, based on the structure of capital,
if the task of attracting additional funds for development is set,
the shareholder capital, that is, the structure of power in this company, should not be washed away.
This task can be solved only with the help of debt financing.
The capital market evaluates the need for a company in debt financing
and will determine its level of financial, production or business risk.
This is also a synonym.
From here, a certain value of borrowing for a particular company is formed.
Combining the value of one's own capital and debt financing,
one can determine the average cost of capital.
This is the value of capital for a particular company.
How to determine the value of capital for any company?
We know that there are two different sources of capital financing in calculation.
Debt financing, loan, interest, bonds, and so on.
And the share of participation or shareholding in the company management.
Stocks, shares and other forms.
The combination of these two sources of financing allows us to determine the total value of capital for a particular company.
What do I do in this case?
Without going into detail about the share of each source of financing in the total structure of capital,
I determine the value of each source separately.
I determine the value of the loan, the value of the bond, and so on.
I evaluate the shares separately.
And then, having received two assessments, I look at their mutual influence.
Mutual influence is always there.
How will the mutual influence of two prices affect the final assessment of the company?
This is a tedious analytical work that must be done every time the sources taken separately are calculated.
When I have done all this, I put the final conclusions in the final formula of average costs
and determine how much capital is spent for the company today.
The value of the sources taken separately.
If we take the debt sources as the main priority in modern business,
then we can talk about the value of the bond and the value of the loan financing.
You probably know how to calculate the value of a loan.
This is the percentage and the corresponding expenses for the loan, divided by the amount of the loan.
In general, this is how it was explained to you.
But there is one important remark.
The loan scheme is well known in the world.
This is the simplest approach to the percentage payments to the amount of the loan.
It is not often used in the modern world.
For example, a banker is giving out a loan and wants to take some risks.
What can he do?
He can leave the amount of the compensation balance at your account.
Usually, this is no more than 15% of the amount of the main debt.
In this case, the value of the loan is increasing.
The denominator is not the total amount of the loan,
but the minus of the compensation balance.
The denominator decreases, the whole expression of the fraction increases,
and the value of the loan increases.
There are other more severe loans for business and other borrowers.
For example, a loan to a loan office.
Even buying a car on credit today will most likely be done according to this scheme.
Why is it considered the most applicable for borrowers?
Because the calculation of the debt, despite the fact that the loan was registered for 3 or 5 years,
the calculation of the debt begins from the very beginning of the registration.
That is, a month or a quarter has passed, and a part of the main debt will have to be paid off in installments.
If you look closely at the general scheme of this debt,
then for a company, with a percentage rate of 15% per year,
this loan will cost almost 30% per year.
That is, the rate is almost doubled.
Because you use less and less loan amount, and the rate remains constant.
These are the features of the assessment of credit resources.
As for bonds, when assessing bonds as a source of debt financing,
it should be borne in mind that there is a current profitability and profitability to repayment.
The current profitability is calculated in the same way as the cost of credit resources.
The investment of the coupon income multiplied by the nominal cost of the bond is divided by its current cost.
What percentage you get, you get.
This is the current profitability of the bond.
But for the borrower company, the total profitability is important.
That is, the profitability to repayment.
If I add the amount that I have to pay at the time of repayment of the bond,
and I have to return the nominal,
then this total cost will give the profitability to repayment.
The general formula looks very simple.
The amount for a period of, say, N years,
let it be 5 years, which is a fashionable term of bond loans in Russia today.
Here is the amount and component consisting of 5 years.
The coupon income divided by the unit plus the rate of profitability required.
The denominator is the discount multiplier.
I have specially brought you two tables of discounting in the lecture conspectus,
so that you can calculate the cost of the debt financing sources yourself.
The second component of the denominator is the discount rate.
Here, keep in mind that the amount required by the norm of profitability
in economic terms means the lowest profitability limit that suits the investor.
The money owners are ready to give you for investment.
If we leave the value of R as unknown and solve the equation of R,
we will get the profitability of repayment.
Today, the built-in functions of Excel allow us to do this very quickly.
If I want to calculate this parameter immediately,
then there is a method of approximate calculations.
The sum of the coupon income,
plus the denominator minus the current value of the bond,
divided by the number of years, for example, by 5,
and the denominator is the half-sum of the denominator and the current profitability of the bond.
What is the error?
Usually, on the second sign, after the comma, that is, 12.24%,
I had doubts in the fourth.
So, for approximate calculations, it is suitable, you can use it.
It is much more difficult to calculate the value of the share.
I believe that at the moment, there is no way in the world of science
that gives the opportunity to accurately estimate the value of the share.
Although, several Nobel Prizes have been awarded for this,
there are no accurate calculations for today.
What is the problem here?
Any value, including capital, is determined by the future,
by some expectations of how much income I will receive from owning this financial instrument.
But the future is always unpredictable, and that's the whole problem.
The problem of the valuation of the share is the problem of taking into account the risk factor.
The most popular formula for calculating the value of the share is the Gordon formula.
It is very simple, you just need to understand its economic meaning.
The numerator is D1, that is, the dividend of the first year.
C0 is the base year, the zero year.
D1 is the first year.
The denominator is the required income rate, R, minus the dividend rate.
What is the value of this formula?
For young companies, if the formula includes the dividend rate,
that is, the company is developing,
then this formula can accurately determine the value of the share of such a company.
For a traditional company, especially for one that pays dividends unevenly,
the calculation of this formula is very difficult.
What is the weakness of this formula?
It is very difficult to predict the rate of dividend growth.
Of course, we still rely on our forecasts, on the preceding financial data about this company.
And yet, it is impossible to take into account the exact repetition of the situation in the future.
The future will always be different from the previous period.
And taking into account this discrepancy, this is the main problem for financiers.
In the West, Sharpe model has received a very wide spread.
Pay attention, the main comparison with ARM is often said.
This is the Sharpe model, the Nobel Prize in Economics.
The profitability of my share of the company is equal to R0.
If I move R to the right, it is a risk-free rate.
Plus the expression in the right part of the data,
Btg multiplied by Mm, this is the profitability of the market portfolio, minus the risk-free rate.
This is called the risk-free bonus.
Each share of a particular company is made up of two components.
The risk-free rate plus the risk-free bonus.
The main difficulty of using this formula is the determination of the beta coefficient.
It expresses the reaction of a particular share of the company to the change in the market price.
Let's say you trade your shares in the RTS system, the Russian fund platform.
The value of the market portfolio, that is, the total shares that are presented there, is 16%.
Last week, the RTS index went down.
It dropped to 4% immediately.
Look at how the value of your share of the company reacted to the change in the external environment.
It dropped to 8%.
Its reaction is more acute than the reaction of the entire market.
This means that the beta coefficient is greater than 1.
If we take such proportions, it is close to 2.
The reaction is more severe to the change of the external environment than the reaction of the market.
This coefficient in Western practice, where a huge statistical array of data is accumulated,
exists an agency that constantly provides data for a huge number of companies.
In Russian practice, obtaining this data is difficult, and therefore it is quite difficult to use this formula.
The simplest way is to use the income approaches.
The second is to take into account the risk factor.